---
layout: archive
title: "Research"
permalink: /research/
author_profile: true
---

{% include base_path %}

## Agent-based modelling for the adoption of beneficial water management practices in eastern Canada 

As a focal driving force for agricultural development, the diffusion and application of innovativeagricultural technology ultimately depend on farmers’ adoption of new technologies.  In particular, given the severe challenges of increasing agri-environmental problems, including resourcedestruction, land and water pollution, and climate change, sustainable agriculture requires moreagri-environmental beneficial technologies or practices to be voluntarily implemented by farmers. This research employed agent-based modeling (ABM) to calibrate thepolicy-induced dynamic adoption/diffusion process agri-environmental technology due to previousmicro-level studies’ limitations of using the econometric models from the ex-post perspective andabsence from policy interventions. A framework of policy-induced agri-environmental technologyis introduced with model components and implementation process based on related research regarding technology adoption and ABM. Further, simulation results are from an agent-based modelbased  on  the  case  regarding  the  adoption  of  Beneficial  water  management  practices  in  eastern Canada given the presumed agricultural extension program.  In terms of calibrating the dynamicadoption and diffusion process of BWMPs by farmers in eastern Canada, it shows that the adop-tion of BWMPs will first sporadically appear and then increase dramatically around the 2030s,followed by a rapid decline to the few adoptions in the 2040s.  The curve is generally compatiblewith the conventional S-shape curve but much steeper, starting to ascend slowly and speeding upto get the high adoption peak in the 2030s. Then considering the climate change scenario, climatechange impacts vastly increase the volatility of agricultural production and magnify the hardness inthe farm operation and decision-making. However, farmers still hold the chance to remain stable inoperation by proactively adapting to climate change. Also, climate change causes a decline in theBWMPs adoption rate of farms and farmland. Next, to compare the effects of typical policy instru-ments, it can be found that both cost-share and low-interest loan programs can accelerate farmers’adoption by shortening their adoption year,  but no significant effect on enhancing the ultimateadoption rate.  Only the agri-extension program is conducive to extend the final overall adoptionrate of farms; though, the AE program’s effectiveness is not prominent compared to other subsidy-incentive programs considering the total farmland adoption rate. In addition, the policy evaluationindicators, including affected farms, the total amount of social benefits in terms of monetary, program costs and cost-effectiveness ratio, provide comprehensive analytic criteria for policy designand forthcoming policy effectiveness monitoring. The results highlight dynamic adoption/diffusionprocess and policy evaluation to explain how ABM can support the agri-environmental policy de-sign.  Conclusively,  this study suggests ABM as a powerful and flexible tool in policy ex-anteevaluation and design regarding social-ecological systems based on various perspectives of policy goals, such as participants, land, total social benefits and cost-effectiveness.  Besides, ABMincorporated with interdisciplinary research and potentially interfaced with big data and machinelearning techniques in the future can shed light on the complexity economics, which may be ig-nored by established economic theory.
