---
title: 'The observation of chinese rural areas from the perspective of resource endowment'
date: 2021-09-13
permalink: /posts/2021/09/blog-post-1/
tags:
  - China
  - Rural development
  - Essay
---

This essay was writen in the year of 2016 after I participated a rurul survey organized by Center for Resource Economics and Environmental Management of NWAFU. The content of this essay is about my observation regarding the conditions and restrictions in rural villages in Shaanxi province of China. The main conclusion is that the opportunity of rural villages lies in capital accumulation and labor force's backflow, while the existing households' relatively independent land institution can not meet the requirements for modern agricultural development in free market institution.


Introduction
======
Shaanxi is a key province of the project due to Shaanxi had a long history of deforesting to create farmland. Under the background of 30 years' mass industrialization and urbanization process in China, rural villages and people living in rural areas have been transformed. However the development of rural villages is always attached of great importance in China for it is associated with large population of peasants. This essay tries to interpret the realistic problems of situations and changes as well as future tendency through investigating the allocation and transformation of agricultural resource, including land, labor and investment in rural areas. 

Land
======

The change in farmland utilization will have a profound impact on the land resource and efficiency of production(Van Vliet et al., 2015). Concerning agricultural structure adjustment, non-agriculturalization, non-grain preference and abandonment of farmland use are majorly three ways. The non-agriculturalization refers to the process of changing from agricultural land with lower economic benefits into construction land with higher economic benefits; the non-grain preference refers to the phenomenon that farmland is used for planting cash crops instead of grain and the abandonment refers to the status of leaving arable land derelict or underutilized due to halted and reduced farming(Long et al., 2016, Van Vliet et al., 2015). Demographic, economic, technological, institutional, and sociocultural drivers are all related to the observed changes, in combination with location factors and farm and farmer characteristics(Van Vliet et al., 2015). 
In observation villages in Shaanxi, phenomenon of non-agriculturalization and abandonment of land is with rare frequency, but the farmers commonly represent the non-grain preference of farmland. Basically, the form of peasant economy of households' independent production and market influence in agricultural production can explain these phenomena. In the first place, the current households' responsibility policy is derived from independent production of family units in traditional Chinese rural areas, saying Peasant Economy, when the people's community policy had been destroyed and broken down for the inherent selfish behavior of peasants leading to lack of labor enthusiasm and production efficiency (Lin 1990, Lin 1992). Peasants are not assumed to be small profit maximizing farmers; by contrast, the needs of the household can be the priority of their work (Chayanov, 1966; Ellis and Frank 1988). In the peasant economy, the initial implementation of households' responsibility policy greatly aroused the enthusiasm of farmer and promoted the development of agricultural production. But households' responsibility policy as well as peasant economy start to limit the peasants' incentives to invest money and technology in agriculture and decrease the possibility of standard management(Li and Zhang, 2013). It is especially manifest in the village of southern Shaanxi, where the farmers take agricultural production for their own food, such as crops, potatoes, vegetables even meat and eggs. In addition they only sell the remnants in the market beyond their own consumption. Accordingly in assumption of meeting own needs they will not abandon the land easily or else transform the agricultural land to other industry with more investment. In the second place, the development of market economy has massive influence on the farmers' production choose(Song et al., 2016). They prefer allocating more land on cash crops instead of grain to make more profits. In the village of northern Shaanxi, apples and walnuts planting in large scales benefit to increase farmers' income and the efficiency of land resources. Meantime, risks of market make the farmers to be conservative. Once they experienced failure in market, they pretend to think reducing investment of cash crops in next season.

Labor
======

The move of labor force from rural villages to urban areas is an inevitable consequence derived from surplus labor force in agricultural production rather than the attraction effect by the city life under the bio-structure of economy and society between urban and rural areas (Angelsen, 1999; Benjamin, 1992). In one of observation villages, which locate in the southern Shaanxi, merely middle-age women and the elderly take the agricultural production without young and middle-age men working in farming. The living condition of this village is extremely poor as to the land is so scarce that farmers solely are attributed by 1 mu/person (1 mu equals 666.67 m2 or 1/15 ha.). Locating in mountain areas, the small village is not an advantageous place for agricultural production in terms of geographical condition and climate condition hence the main productions are potatoes and corn with low yields of 200kg/mu, comparing to average 600kg/mu. By calculating the factual input of labor force in this case, the labor force surplus is clearly severe in local rural areas by the fact that it barely takes women and the elderly in the house no more than 20 standard work days for two season's crop farming in households' land which is about 6-8 mu. Needless to say the men's working efficiency is much higher than those of women and the elderly, it would takes less time for men to finish the farming work in whole year. Therefore as main labor force in house, the middle-age men usually work in factory or service industry to earn salary than farming. From other evidence that hired price of men for farming in busy seasons is about 10-15 USD/day comparing to the average pay in city 100yuan/day, it is evident that the supply of labor market in rural is sufficient with a large number of rural people having migrated to urban areas for jobs. On the contrary, the situation differs from another observation village in northern Shaanxi (The Loess Plateau) where because of drought the amount of agricultural production is unstable in history; however, the production has increased with irrigation improvement these years since improvement of irrigation facilities. In the village, instead of solely middle-age women and the elder working in land, many middle-age men are the main labor force in agricultural production for the reason that their land is much larger around 20 mu/person. They do not need to work in urban because theirs' working times are totally been occupied by farming in their own land. Analyzing the difference of labor force between the two villages, it is reasonable that the outflow of the workforce shows the surplus of human resource allocation in rural areas.

Investment
======

The central government has increased the investment in rural areas since economic crisis in 2008. Before then inadequate investment into rural public infrastructure construction has existed since Chinese economic reform(Yang et al., 2016). In the No.1 report in 2008-2009 of CPC Central Committee and State Council, the central government clearly decided to enforce the development of infrastructure in rural areas and issue a series of policy measures, which cover basic facilities of agricultural production, agricultural life infrastructure, construction of the ecological environment and basic facilities of rural social development. Likewise, the establishment of rural social security system has provided an elemental guarantee for farmers as far as health, education and pension is concerned. The farmers appreciate and satisfy with the new social security system even with consideration that it is a major challenge to establish both an adequate and a financially sustainable rural pension system regarding the rapid growth of China's elderly rural population.
Another change in rural areas is the rapidly accumulation of property in households especially in those where their families work in the cities. On the one hand, the enhancement of farmers’ income contributes to the growing of personal wealth in rural households. On the other hand, the traditional ideas of family duty in which adults feel obliged to support their children and parents cause adults who work outside to send money regularly to their families staying in house and save for building or repairing house and purchasing household appliances for the family in rural villages.

Summary
======

* Outflow of labor force is a rational result of efficiency of agricultural production. 

* Current land institution has formed a constraint to scale production and furthermore obstructs the development of modern agricultural production. 

* Investment shows the tendency of transferring from urban to rural areas from state strategy by means of infrastructure construction, such as transportation, communication facilities as well as establishing social security system in rural areas. 


References
------

ANGELSEN, A.1999. Agricultural expansion and deforestation: modeling the impact of population, market forces and property rights. Journal of Development Economics,58,185–218. 
BENJAMIN, D.1992. Household Composition, Labor Markets, and Labor Demand: Testing for Separation in Agricultural Household Models.Econometrica,60,287–322. 
CHAYANOV, A. V.1996. The theory of peasant economy. Homewood, Ill: Published for the American Economic Association, by R.D. Irwin.
CPC CENTRAL COMMITTEE AND STATE COUNCIL. 2009. Report on promoting the sustainable development of agriculture in 2009 to increase farmers' income
http://www.farmer.com.cn/ywzt/wyhwj/yl/201502/t20150205_1011781.htm
ELLIS, FRANK .1988. Peasant Economics: Farm Households and Agrarian Development. Cambridge and New York: Cambridge University Press
LIN, J. Y. 1990. Collectivization and China’s agricultural crisis in 1959–1961. Journal of Political Economy 98(6), 1228–52.
LIN, J. Y. 1992. Rural reforms and agricultural growth in China. American Economic Review 82, 34–51.
LI, Z. & ZHANG, H.-P. 2013. Productivity Growth in China's Agriculture During 1985–2010. Journal of Integrative Agriculture, 12, 1896-1904.
LONG, H., TU, S., GE, D., LI, T. & LIU, Y. 2016. The allocation and management of critical resources in rural China under restructuring: Problems and prospects. Journal of Rural Studies, 47, 392-412.
SONG, W., HAN, Z. & DENG, X. 2016. Changes in productivity, efficiency and technology of China's crop production under rural restructuring. Journal of Rural Studies.
VAN VLIET, J., DE GROOT, H. L. F., RIETVELD, P. & VERBURG, P. H. 2015. Manifestations and underlying drivers of agricultural land use change in Europe. Landscape and Urban Planning, 133, 24-36.
YANG, R., XU, Q. & LONG, H. 2016. Spatial distribution characteristics and optimized reconstruction analysis of China’s rural settlements during the process of rapid urbanization. Journal of Rural Studies, 47, 413-424.

